GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: A
raucous meeting
of the European Union's
Parliament exposes
the deep divide created by the
United Kingdom's
decision to leave.
Also ahead this Tuesday: House
Republicans
conclude their two-year
investigation into
the Benghazi attacks, but find
no new evidence
of wrongdoing by Hillary
Clinton.
And we get rare access to a
controversial
correctional facility housing
sex offenders
long after their sentences have
been served.
CRAIG BOLTE, Juvenile Sex
Offender: Once the
doors close, you know really
quickly that
you are going to die here, and
that's your
only way out.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: A terror attack in
Istanbul, Turkey,
this evening has killed at least
28 people
at the main airport. The
regional governor
says as many as three suicide
bombers opened
fire, then blew themselves up.
Within minutes, amateur video
showed lines
of ambulances arriving and
police rushing
in. Many of the 60 wounded were
ferried to
a nearby hospital.
European leaders convened today,
hoping to
calm the chaos over Britain's
vote to leave
the E.U. What they got was a
kind of verbal
victory lap by the backers of
Brexit.
Margaret Warner has our report.
NIGEL FARAGE, U.K. Independence
Party Leader:
When I came here 17 years ago
and I said that
I wanted to lead a campaign to
get Britain
to leave the European Union, you
all laughed
at me. Well, I have to say,
you're not laughing
now, are you?
MARGARET WARNER: It was a day of
high drama
at the E.U. Parliament in
Brussels. Nigel
Farage, a leader of the Brexit
movement, the
head of the U.K.'s Independence
Party and
a member of the E.U. Parliament,
taunted his
fellow lawmakers.
NIGEL FARAGE: You, as a
political project,
are in denial. You're in denial
that your
currency is failing. You are in
denial -- well,
just -- well, just look at the
Mediterranean.
I will make one prediction this
morning: The
United Kingdom will not be the
last member
state to leave the European
Union.
MARGARET WARNER: Marine Le Pen,
the leader
of France's far-right National
Front, came
to Farage's defense.
MARINE LE PEN, President,
National Front Party
(through translator): This is
perhaps the
most important historic event in
the continent
since the fall of the Berlin
Wall.
MARGARET WARNER: Meanwhile, the
timetable
for negotiating Britain's exit
dominated much
of the day. The president of the
European
Commission urged London to
invoke Article
50 of the E.U. treaty quickly to
start the
process.
JEAN-CLAUDE JUNCKER, President,
European Commission
(through translator): I would
like the United
Kingdom to clarify its position,
not today
or tomorrow at 9:00 a.m., but
swiftly.
MARGARET WARNER: But British
Prime Minister
David Cameron said Britain won't
invoke Article
50 and start negotiating the
exit until he
steps down this fall. But he
pressed his European
counterparts today for the best
possible terms.
DAVID CAMERON, British Prime
Minister: I want
that process to be as
constructive as possible.
And I hope the outcome can be as
constructive
as possible, because, of course,
while we
are leaving the European Union,
we must not
be turning our backs on Europe.
MARGARET WARNER: In Berlin,
however, German
Chancellor Angela Merkel told
her Parliament
that Britain cannot expect to
get everything
it wants.
ANGELA MERKEL, German Chancellor
(through
translator): We will make sure
that the negotiations
will not follow the principle of
cherry-picking.
There has to be and there will
be a clear
distinction whether a country
wants to be
a part of the E.U. family or
not.
MARGARET WARNER: Back in London,
there was
more domestic political fallout.
Labor leader
Jeremy Corbyn, who opposed the
Brexit, lost
a nonbinding confidence vote
within his own
party today. But he again
insisted again he
will not resign.
As for economic fallout, the
British treasury
chief, George Osborne, warned it
will take
tax hikes and spending cuts to
stabilize the
country's financial position.
And London's
Mayor Sadiq Khan called for
giving the capital
greater autonomy to protect
itself against
economic uncertainty.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
GWEN IFILL: Back in this
country, the Justice
Department announced Volkswagen
will spend
roughly $15 billion to settle an
emissions
cheating scandal. It includes
$10 billion
to buy back or repair 475,000
V.W. and Audi
vehicles. Another $2.7 billion
will go to
offset excess pollution. And
officials said
$2 billion will fund research
into zero-emission
vehicles.
SALLY YATES, U.S. Deputy
Attorney General:
Volkswagen turned over 500,000
American drivers
into unwitting accomplices in an
unprecedented
assault on our country's
environment. While
this announcement is an
important step forward
in achieving justice for the
American people,
let me be clear, it is by no
means the last
step.
GWEN IFILL: Volkswagen still
faces billions
of dollars in potential fines
and penalties,
and possible criminal charges.
Efforts to push new Zika funding
through Congress
bogged down today. Senate
Democrats blocked
a Republican bill containing
$1.1 million.
They objected to restrictions on
the use of
birth control grants. Today's
outcome kills
any chance of action before the
Fourth of
July recess.
And the world's number one
golfer, Jason Day,
has withdrawn from the Summer
Olympics in
Rio de Janeiro over the threat
of Zika. The
Australian star said he won't
risk infecting
his wife with the virus, which
can cause birth
defects. Day is the latest
high-profile athlete
to pass on the Summer Games.
And markets rebounded after a
two-day rout
caused by the Brexit vote. The
Dow Jones industrial
average gained 269 points to
close at 17409.
The Nasdaq rose 97 points, and
the S&P 500
added 35.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Republicans
release a two-year report on
Benghazi -- what
did it find?; a look at why
Great Britain's
Brexit vote divided generations;
how juvenile
sex offenders are getting locked
up decades
after their sentences end; and
much more.
sex offenders are getting locked
up decades
after their sentences end; and
much more.
After years of investigations,
interviews,
and hearings, the House special
committee
looking into the 2012 attack in
Benghazi,
Libya, released 800 pages of
findings today.
The assault, which resulted in
the deaths
of four Americans, including the
U.S. ambassador,
slams the Obama administration
for lax security
and a sluggish response, but it
doesn't lay
blame at then-Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton's
doorstep.
Republican Congressman Trey
Gowdy, the panel's
chairman, said Clinton, now the
Democrats'
presumptive presidential
nominee, was never
the focus on the inquiry.
REP. TREY GOWDY (R), South
Carolina: Speaker
Boehner asked me to find out
what happened
to four of our fellow citizens,
and I believe
that that is what I have done.
You are welcome to read that
report. I hope
you will. I know you will. If
you at the end
of reading that report can
conclude that it
is about one person, instead of
about four
people, I will be shocked. I
think the American
people ought to look at it. They
ought to
look at it because fellow
Americans died and
fellow Americans were injured
and fellow Americans
went to heroic lengths to save
other Americans.
What conclusions they draw after
reading it
is up to them.
GWEN IFILL: The White House, and
Clinton herself,
said the investigation was
always politically
motivated. She weighed in during
a campaign
stop today in Denver.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
After more than two years and $7
million spent
by the Benghazi committee out of
taxpayer
funds, it had to today report
that it had
found nothing, nothing to
contradict the conclusions
of the independent
accountability board or
the conclusions of the prior
multiple earlier
investigations.
I will leave it to others to
characterize
this report, but I think it's
pretty clear
it's time to move on.
GWEN IFILL: Lisa Desjardins has
been reading
into the report and its
findings. She joins
me now.
Whether politically motivated or
not, Lisa,
what new did we learn, if
anything, from this
report?
LISA DESJARDINS: Well, this
report in all
800 pages has highlights of 22
new facts that
the committee says it learned.
When you look through those
facts, there's
two kinds. I think the most
important ones
are about the failures in the
Defense Department
and in the intelligence
community that led
to Benghazi and led to the
Americans there
not being protected, including
some as simple
as then-Secretary of Defense
Leon Panetta
ordering that three different
teams be deployed
to the area, but yet those
orders weren't
conveyed for an hour-and-a-half,
and even
at that point, they weren't
followed.
So, I think the most critical
part is about
the security sector here and
failures on that
level. Now, the second group has
to deal with
how the Obama administration and
Secretary
Clinton and all of that staff
reacted and
then how they dealt with
Congress later.
GWEN IFILL: Eleven hours of
hearings, we remember,
before this committee as they
tried to get
to the bottom of this, and yet
you would think
that, if Hillary Clinton would
speak to the
committee for that long, that
this report
would at least be in part about
Hillary Clinton,
but it seems not to be.
LISA DESJARDINS: No.
And I went through this report
carefully as
much as I could in the eight
hours I had today
after it came out. When you look
at it, Hillary
Clinton actually is not the
number one official
named in it. That's actually
Susan Rice, who
was then the U.N. ambassador,
now national
security adviser.
And I think that's because Susan
Rice had
the most forward amount of
statements claiming
that Benghazi was, in fact, led
or caused
by protests, which later we know
the administration
had reason to believe was
untrue, but there
may have been miscommunication
or was it on
purpose? This report doesn't
answer those
questions.
GWEN IFILL: The Republicans on
the committee
itself don't even seem to
necessarily agree.
We have heard Kirk (sic) Gowdy
saying strenuously
this wasn't political, but there
are other
members who disagree.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
I think Democrats on the
committee certainly
say this was political and
politically constructed.
They say there were many
witnesses whose testimony
wasn't released because it
supported the administration
and particularly supported
Hillary Clinton.
You know, I think those who talk
about Benghazi,
the hashtag #Benghazi, people
might even not
know what really happened there,
are asking,
did Hillary Clinton know about
this attack?
Did she let it happen? Did she
cover it up?
This report doesn't indicate she
did any of
that.
GWEN IFILL: Now, of course, I
just called
him Kirk Gowdy, and not Trey
Gowdy, so there's
a big difference there.
But he's obviously the chairman
of the committee.
But there were Democrats who put
out their
own report yesterday trying to
get ahead of
this, saying, what, no problem,
nothing to
see here?
LISA DESJARDINS: They're saying
even more
than that. They're saying that
the Republicans
really constructed this. And
they're also
saying this was a waste of
taxpayer dollars.
We know this was about a $7
million committee.
Now, for those who point to this
was a huge
failure of intelligence defense
in a sector
of the world where we have
serious and growing
terrorist threats, they say it
was well worth
it. But you also look at this,
Gwen. Another
two-year investigation that we
know of in
recent years, the 9/11
Commission, that lasted
two years, that was about $12
million. So
you can compare those side by
side.
GWEN IFILL: You have been
covering politics
for a while. You know the way
these things
work. Was it really about the
findings in
this report or is it about the
fact that the
word Benghazi itself has become
such a hot
button?
LISA DESJARDINS: That completely
depends on
who you ask.
GWEN IFILL: Yes.
LISA DESJARDINS: I think, when
you heard Trey
Gowdy speaking, he is saying, I
really was
trying to get to the bottom of
this. I didn't
want this to become political.
But then we heard from the House
majority
leader, who -- Mr. McCarthy, who
indicated
that it was successful because
it brought
out the e-mail server
information about Hillary
Clinton. That's why we know she
had that private
e-mail server is because of
this. Kevin McCarthy
indicated that was a win. That
led to his
downfall.
So I think what happened here
is, we actually
don't know a lot about who said,
did what,
who was to blame for what. But
because of
this investigation, we have seen
many political
figures take significant hits.
GWEN IFILL: And it's led to
other investigations,
as investigations in Washington
often do.
LISA DESJARDINS: Sure.
GWEN IFILL: Lisa Desjardins,
thank you very
much.
LISA DESJARDINS: My pleasure.
GWEN IFILL: We return now to the
story of
Brexit, and a look at the
generational divisions
among British voters in last
week's referendum.
Hari Sreenivasan is in London.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Carshalton,
less than 15
miles from the center of London,
unlike their
downtown neighbors, these South
London voters
decided it was best for Britain
to leave the
European Union.
After Sunday services at All
Saints Anglican
Church comes Sunday tea, this
week with a
spoonful of Brexit.
Hillary Wortley is happy that
the U.K. is
getting out of the E.U.
HILLARY WORTLEY, England: They
take our money,
they don't give it all back to
us, and what
they do give back to us, they
tell us what
we should spend it on.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Forty-seven-year-old Tracey
Hall-Green works in financial
services, an
area already hit by the Brexit.
But she says
that the E.U. was providing
diminishing returns.
TRACEY HALL-GREEN, England: More
and more
weak countries are joining.
Initially, there
were seven countries, so that
was fine, but
now there are 28. And there's
strong powers,
and then there's a lot of other
ones which
are bankrupt, like Greece.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As for the
current market
turmoil?
TRACEY HALL-GREEN: If there's a
blip, I'm
quite happy to take a bit of a
hit in the
interim for the good of the
country.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In nearby
Sutton, Martin
O'Leary was taking a smoke break
outside a
pub where he was watching a
soccer match.
And you voted which way?
MARTIN O'LEARY, England: I voted
to leave
the European market, yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: How come?
MARTIN O'LEARY: First of all, I
think most
of it was mainly immigration,
but also it's
like the schooling system. It's
like my granddaughter
can't be guaranteed to go to a
school near
here. She's 4 or 5. It's just
overpopulating
our schools, our hospitals, and
everything.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We caught up
with Paul Scully,
who represents this bedroom
community in Parliament.
His family was getting ready for
brunch. We
sat down on his patio. And he
told us why
a majority his constituents
voted the way
they did.
Why is it better for someone in
this neighborhood
if Britain is no longer part of
the E.U.?
PAUL SCULLY, European Parliament
Member: I
think there's three things.
There's the economy.
There are opportunities around
the world,
whereas the European economy
isn't growing
at all.
HARI SREENIVASAN: He also
mentioned immigration.
PAUL SCULLY: Where people can
come from Greece,
where youth unemployment is 50
percent, to
London on the hope of a job,
whereas if you
have got a skilled worker,
skilled I.T. consultant
from India or you have got a
nurse from the
Philippines or from Australia,
they have got
to apply and go through a lot of
bureaucracy
to have the hope of coming here
to do a job
that we really want them to do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, finally,
sovereignty.
PAUL SCULLY: They don't want an
unelected,
unaccountable bureaucrat in
Brussels, in Belgium,
talking -- telling us what we
should be doing
and creating regulations and
directives.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Bill Main-ian
and his friends
at the local U.K. Independence
Party, or UKIP,
campaigned for nine months to
convince voters
to leave the E.U.
BILL MAIN-IAN, England: In a
word, sovereignty.
In a word, democracy. In a word,
destiny.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Bill wasn't
able to convince
his own children.
After your daughter came home
from the polls
and you figured out that she
didn't vote the
same way you do, what was that
conversation
like?
(LAUGHTER)
BILL MAIN-IAN: Look, once they
understood
the issues, they made it on the
other side,
I respect that. Wouldn't agree
with it, but
I would respect it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It wasn't just
the Main-ian
household. Across the country,
there was a
generational divide; younger
voters wanted
to remain, older voters wanted
to leave.
WOMAN: I'm really quite
terrified about the
whole thing.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Haley and her
husband, Dan,
who didn't want to give us their
last names,
are in their 20s and live in
London. Unlike
Haley's parents, they voted to
stay in the
E.U.
WOMAN: I'm not really sure
what's going to
happen and that uncertainty is
really -- is
really unsettling.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Nineteen-year-old Phoebe
Jordan is also worried.
PHOEBE JORDAN, England: In two
years, I will
be leaving university, which is
the same time
we will be leaving the E.U. And
I'm nervous
about jobs, working abroad. I
think it makes
the majority of me and my
friends very nervous.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Swati Dhingra,
a professor
at the London School of
Economics, says the
fears of Jordan and her peers
are well-founded.
SWATI DHINGRA, London School of
Economics:
The large, persistent negative
effects of
wages on young college graduates
if they enter
during a downturn, even 15 years
afterwards,
they have 2.5 percent lower
income. So, in
that sense, these are persistent
effects which
stay with the younger
population, and they
are the ones who are going to be
growing up
with that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Quite a few of
the young
people say this is going to
jeopardize our
futures.
BILL MAIN-IAN: Their future
actually I think
has been guaranteed because of
the patriotic
campaigning that our side of the
debate has
been doing. They may not see it
now. Perhaps
in five, 10, 15 years' time,
they may recall
their position and may be
grateful.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Back at All
Saints Church,
Hillary Wortley says Britain's
young voters
have only themselves to blame
for the outcome.
HILLARY WORTLEY: A lot of the
young people
didn't vote and that's why
they're angry now.
My nephew didn't vote because he
thought he
could vote online, and when he
found out he
couldn't, he couldn't be
bothered to move
down to the polling station.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The message
from the pulpit,
healing after division.
MAN: Revenge is sweet to start
with, but living
on sugar will kill you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A sermon
likely to be repeated
as this continental divorce
continues.
For the "PBS NewsHour" I'm Hari
Sreenivasan
in London.
GWEN IFILL: Next: the difficult
question of
how to deal with people
convicted of sex crimes,
specifically what to do with
young juvenile
offenders. Should they be locked
up indefinitely?
Do they belong in facilities
designed for
some of society's worst adult
offenders?
William Brangham traveled to
Minnesota for
this report, part of our Broken
Justice series.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This facility
in the rural
town of Moose Lake is where
Minnesota puts
the sex offenders it says are
too dangerous
to live on the outside.
Twenty-nine-year-old Craig Bolte
is one of
them. He's been locked up for
nearly half
his life. It started when he was
15, when
he pled guilty to sexually
assaulting a younger
member of his family, and also
admitted to
sexual contact with another
minor. He says
these were very troubling years
for him.
CRAIG BOLTE, Juvenile Sex
Offender: I was
sexually abused on numerous
occasions as a
child when I was a young child,
and that is
by no means an excuse. I'm
responsible for
my actions. I still hurt people.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Bolte was
originally sentenced
to three years, but he's now
been behind bars
here in Minnesota for 14, locked
up with hundreds
of rapists, child abusers, and
other sex offenders.
They're all being kept by what's
known as
civil commitment law, which
allows a state
to deem someone an ongoing
threat and even
after their sentences are served
keep them
locked up indefinitely.
CRAIG BOLTE: I have been in for
about 10 years
now. All in all, I have been
locked up for
14 years, 10 years of it here.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The "PBS
NewsHour" was granted
rare access to Minnesota's sex
offender program.
We could film interviews inside
this one room,
but, almost everywhere else, we
could only
take still photos. Most everyone
agrees that
there are people locked up in
Minnesota's
program who are very likely to
reoffend. These
are people who say they simply
cannot control
their behavior.
And that concern is why
legislatures in 20
states have set up programs like
this to hold
these people. But others say
these programs
also end up snaring juvenile
offenders who
they argue have no business
being held for
years past their sentences.
ERIC JANUS, Mitchell Hamline
School of Law:
It's outrageous. That's one of
the more outrageous
features of this program.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Eric Janus is
a law professor
and longtime critic of
Minnesota's sex offender
policies. He says juvenile sex
offenders are
almost never the kind of
lifetime sexual predator
that society needs to worry
about.
ERIC JANUS: Probably a fairly
high percentage
of adolescent sexual offending
is basically
due to immaturity and
experimentation, and
so it's not deviant sexuality.
It's not that
they are attracted to violent
sex or involuntary
sex. It's that they are
immature, and that's
the kind of thing that they will
grow out
of.
ELIZABETH LETOURNEAU, Moore
Center for the
Prevention of Child Sexual
Abuse, John Hopkins
University: Juvenile sexual
behavior, like
every other kind of behavior,
changes very
rapidly.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Elizabeth
Letourneau is
one of the nation's leading
experts on juvenile
sex offenders. She directs the
Moore Center
for the Prevention of Child
Sexual Abuse at
John Hopkins University.
She says civilly committing
juvenile sex offenders
makes little sense, first
because it's incredibly
costly. Minnesota spends about
$125,000 per
offender per year, which is
roughly triple
the cost of regular prison. But,
most importantly,
she says it doesn't make sense
because juvenile
offenders are likely not
lifetime offenders.
ELIZABETH LETOURNEAU: Among
youth who are
adjudicated for a sexual
offense, so they
have been arrested, processed,
97 percent
to 98 percent will not reoffend
sexually.
So, truly, the vast majority...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Almost all of
them.
ELIZABETH LETOURNEAU: ... will
not -- almost
all youth, if they are caught
committing a
sexual offense, will not do it
again.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Emily Piper is
the commissioner
of Minnesota's Department of
Human Services,
which oversees the state's sex
offender program.
She says only 4 percent of
Minnesota's registered
sex offenders are currently
civilly committed,
and she argues the state is
rightly incarcerating
the most troubling of those.
EMILY PIPER, Commissioner,
Minnesota Department
of Human Services: The sex
offenders in our
program have some of the most
horrible criminal
histories and horrible crimes in
their past
of any sex offenders in our
state.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: However, there
are currently
67 men like Craig Bolte who have
been locked
up for crimes they committed as
juveniles.
Many of these young men, dozens
of them, who
were put in for crimes they
committed when
they were juveniles, and now
they are in their
30s, and 40s and 50s, is this
the right place
for them?
EMILY PIPER: You know, I would
say many of
the people that are committed as
juveniles
don't have a lot of life
experience outside
of being confined.
And so when we're working with
them, we need
to make sure that we're
appropriately and
adequately reintegrating them
into our society.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That's the
stated goal of
the program, to give mental
health treatment
to the offenders, and release
those who are
deemed ready for life on the
outside.
But in the last two decades, not
one person
has ever been fully released
back home. More
than 40 have died while in
commitment. The
oldest man here is 94. Several
are older than
70.
CRAIG BOLTE: Once the doors
close, you know
really quickly that you are
going to die here,
and that's your only way out.
WOMAN: Alfonso Rodriguez Jr. is
on death row.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The use of
civil commitment
took off in Minnesota as a
result of a particularly
harrowing case. Alfonso
Rodriguez Jr. spent
23 years in prison for rape and
attempted
kidnapping. But six months after
getting out,
Rodriguez struck again,
kidnapping college
student Dru Sjodin.
LINDA WALKER, Mother of Dru
Sjodin: This was
at her brother's wedding in
2002.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: LINDA WALKER
is Dru's mother.
LINDA WALKER: We're almost
positive that he
had her for three hours,
brutally raped and
tortured her, then walked her
down in a ravine,
and slit her throat and left her
to die.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Outraged that
someone like
Rodriguez had been set free,
Walker helped
create the national sex offender
database,
where communities are notified
if former offenders
move into their area.
And her advocacy in Minnesota
helped expand
that state's use of civil
commitment. In 2003,
less than 200 men were civilly
committed in
the state, but in the wake of
Dru's rape and
murder, that number has more
than tripled
to 725 today.
LINDA WALKER: I realized that we
needed more
tools in our chest to protect
our society
from those that choose to
violate and to rape
our women and children.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So you don't
think that
there is any rehabilitation for
this level
of criminal?
LINDA WALKER: I do not.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: There's
nothing that can
be done?
LINDA WALKER: I do not believe
there is, no.
WOMAN: I feel horrible for Dru
Sjodin's mother.
I sympathize with where she is
at and what's
happened to her daughter, but
Craig isn't
even close to Alfonso whoever
did what he
did.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Rodriguez.
WOMAN: He's -- it's a total
different animal,
in my opinion.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Craig Bolte's
mom, Michele,
is now one of his biggest
advocates, even
though she and her husband were
the ones who
first turned their son into the
police years
ago.
WOMAN: Honestly, when I look
back, I feel
like I gave my child a life
sentence.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Michele was
just 14 when
she gave birth to Craig. She
says it was early
on, when Craig was a toddler,
that he was
first sexually abused by an
older family member
who lived with them.
WOMAN: My family has a history
of sexual abuse.
I was abused. My brother was
abused. Now my
son was abused.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: She says it's
that history
that led to Craig's childhood
abuse of other
kids, but she now believes her
29-year-old
son deserves a second chance to
live in society.
WOMAN: You can't sentence a
child murderer
for life. But you can, in the
state of Minnesota,
sentence a child sex offender
for life. I
mean, it's just a total double
standard. It
makes no sense, because you hide
behind that
it's treatment.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In 2011, a
class-action
lawsuit was brought against the
state by a
group of offenders in
Minnesota's program,
including Craig Bolte, arguing
they were not
getting any meaningful treatment
and were
instead being held indefinitely.
And, last year, federal district
judge in
Saint Paul sided with them,
saying that Minnesota's
sex offender program was
unconstitutional,
ruling -- quote -- "It's a
punitive system
that segregates and indefinitely
detains a
class of potentially dangerous
individuals
without the safeguards of the
criminal justice
system."
The state has appealed the
decision, and a
ruling is expected this fall. In
the meantime,
state officials say they have
already started
making changes. Five offenders
have been moved
into less restrictive settings,
and new reviews
are being done of all offenders
to determine
who's a potential candidate for
release and
who isn't.
Even Dru Sjodin's mother, Linda
Walker, admits
that maybe some juvenile cases
should be reexamined,
but she hopes that, in all its
reforms, Minnesota
will err on the side of caution
before releasing
anyone.
LINDA WALKER: We're constantly
taking the
victims out of the equation
every time that
we sit and analyze these people,
and what
about their freedom? They don't
get it back.
Dru is never going to get hers
back.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Craig Bolte
says he's a
changed man, and that he's
hopeful for the
first time that he might one day
get out.
There's a lot of people who will
hear what
you have to say, and that
they're simply not
going to forgive what you did.
And so they
say, look, lock him up and throw
away the
key.
What is your response to that?
What do you
say to those people?
CRAIG BOLTE: I say, let me prove
it. Let me
show you what kind of man I am
today. Let
me prove that I'm not the kid
that I was that
did those things.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: In addition to
the changes
in Minnesota, Missouri and Texas
have also
recently begun reviewing their
civil commitment
programs for sex offenders.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham
in Moose Lake, Minnesota.
GWEN IFILL: We continue our
Broken Justice
series tomorrow, with a report
on educational
options for young people inside
the juvenile
justice system.
Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": how
one college
is closing the graduation gap
between first
generation students and their
peers; celebrated
author Sherman Alexie writes his
first children's
book using Native American
themes; and remembering
legendary basketball coach Pat
Summitt.
But, first: As the Supreme Court
wraps up
an eventful term, a look back
with a lawyer
who has argued his share of
cases, retiring
Solicitor General Donald
Verrilli.
Judy sat down with him recently
on his final
day on the job, after the
court's ruling on
immigration and affirmative
action, but before
yesterday's landmark decision on
abortion
rights.
Here is that exit interview.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Don Verrilli,
thank you very
much for talking with us.
DONALD VERRILLI, Solicitor
General of the
United States: Thank you, Judy.
It's great
to be here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So you have been
the solicitor
general for the past five years
for a Democratic
administration arguing cases
before a majority
conservative Supreme Court. How
do you think
it's gone, on balance?
DONALD VERRILLI: Well, on
balance, pretty
well. We have won some, we have
lost some,
but I think we have won most of
the big, important
cases, health care, marriage
equality.
I think on most of the cases
that really matter
as an historical -- from an
historical perspective,
we have done pretty well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So you would
argue the administration
has done better than the
conservative point
of view?
DONALD VERRILLI: Well, I guess
what I would
say about that is that we
managed to persuade
a court, a majority of whose
members, before
Justice Scalia passed away, you
would say
are conservative, that we had
the right answer
on the law on the big cases.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, just last
week, the justices
handed down a decision on the
president's
immigration plan, which you
argued.
It's being seen as dealing a
pretty significant
blow to this president's legacy.
How do you
see what happens going forward
on immigration
after that decision?
DONALD VERRILLI: Yes.
So, about the decision itself,
you know, whether
one agrees with the position of
the administration
or whether one disagrees with
the position,
I think probably everybody would
agree that
it isn't ideal to have that
question left
in limbo with a 4-4 tie,
affirming a divided
vote of a lower court.
I don't think anybody thinks
that's an ideal
outcome here. And what that I
means, I think,
is that the legal question
remains open for
the future about the president's
authority,
and then the question as a
policy matter about
what we're going to do about the
significant
problem that the -- this policy
was trying
to address, what we're going to
do about that
remains open for the future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So many
unresolved questions.
DONALD VERRILLI: Yes. I think
very little
was resolved by this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we know there
was another
important ruling the court
handed down last
week on affirmative action,
another case you
argued.
Were you surprised by Justice
Kennedy, the
majority opinion essentially in
favor of using
race as some consideration in
college admissions?
DONALD VERRILLI: Well, we were
very pleased
that the court, Justice
Kennedy's opinion
for the court, accepted the
argument that
we put forward on behalf of the
United States
and accepted the argument that
the University
of Texas put forward.
And I think I was a little bit
surprised that
it was as definitive as a
victory as it was.
I had thought there was some
chance that that
case might be sent back to the
lower courts
for more factual development,
but it was a
definitive victory.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is said that
there is a
measure of independence for the
solicitor
general, representing the
administration before
the Supreme Court, but I think
there are also
those who would argue that is
really not possible,
when the solicitor general is a
sub-Cabinet
figure serving under a
president.
How do you see this question of
independence
or not for your job?
DONALD VERRILLI: Well, you know,
the independence
is quite real, and I think every
solicitor
general has had the benefit of
it, and I think
every president has respected
it.
This president has respected it
to an enormous
degree. I have very little
interaction with
the White House on the work of
the office.
I don't go over there and have
regular meetings.
I don't send them reports. They
let me make
the judgment about what I think
the best answer
is for the United States.
Now, there are a couple times
every year where
I think the right answer for the
United States,
the position we're going to take
is something
that might surprise them. And I
will call
the White House counsel and give
them a heads-up
at that point. But I do get a
significant
degree of independence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A different
question: How do
you see this question of whether
the Supreme
Court has become too
politicized? We know
there's a lot of comment about
that, a lot
of -- a number of people who say
it's just
-- it's gone too far, it's
affecting too many
cases.
Is this something the American
people should
be worried about?
DONALD VERRILLI: You know, I
really don't
see it that way.
You do hear that critique a lot
of the court.
I don't see it that way, because
I think that
presidents pick justices because
of what they
expect from the justice's
judicial philosophy.
So maybe you can say it's
political in that
sense.
But I really genuinely don't
think that the
justices are making political
judgments. I
genuinely think they're making
the judgments
that their judicial philosophy
leads them
to make. And it does sometimes
sort out, the
bottom line does sometimes sort
out on what
looks like partisan terms.
But, you know -- but I agree
with the chief
justice when he says it's not a
partisan process,
it's not a political process,
just from my
observation over five years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It just seems
particularly
evident right now with this
empty seat on
the court, with the death of
Justice Scalia
and the disagreement over who
should fill
that slot. We're seeing 4-4
decisions time
and again.
DONALD VERRILLI: Sure.
But, as I said about the
immigration decision,
whichever -- whatever you think
about the
administration's policy here, a
4-4 resolution
of it is not an ideal thing.
Having that seat
filled, I think this case
illustrates why
it's important.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What are the
important decisions
that you see the court likely
handing down
in the next year or two that
have the most
effect on the American people?
DONALD VERRILLI: So, the thing
that I see
continuing over time that the
court's been
struggling with during my five
years in the
job and is going to continue to
struggle with
is the balance between
individual privacy
and the government's use of
technology in
law enforcement and national
security.
You see this over and over
again. You know,
the advances in technology have
made our traditional
notions of privacy and our legal
notions of
privacy almost obsolete. And
they really need
to be refashioned to meet the
challenges that
government's use of technology
poses.
And that clash has come up over
and over again
in the last five years, and I
think that's
going to intensify over time. I
just think
it's going to be a significant
part of what
the Supreme Court and the lower
federal courts
have got to grapple with in the
coming years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's asking a lot
of these
justices to understand this new
technology,
isn't it?
DONALD VERRILLI: It's a huge
challenge.
And they try to be very careful
and incremental
and prudent about it for
precisely that reason,
that I think they're feeling a
little bit
at sea, because they're not
experts on the
technology. And so they do try
to be careful
about it, but it's a big
challenge.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The solicitor
general of the
United States for a few more
hours.
DONALD VERRILLI: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Don Verrilli,
thank you very
much.
DONALD VERRILLI: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Most colleges are
out for the
summer, but some students will
return in the
fall facing a continuing
challenge: Can they
afford the cost to complete
their degree?
April Brown takes us to Georgia,
where one
school is working to improve the
odds. It's
part of our weekly education
series, Making
the Grade.
ANGELICA SANCHEZ, Student:
Georgia State is
definitely a school that I fell
in love with
even before I came to college.
APRIL BROWN: When Angelica
Sanchez was a high
school senior, she knew she was
going to college,
but she wasn't sure she'd ever
be able to
get to Georgia state.
ANGELICA SANCHEZ: My parents
didn't go to
college, but my brother my
sister and I -- we
are first generation students.
APRIL BROWN: Apart from finding
the funding,
Sanchez, like many other first
generation
college-goers, needed help
navigating the
new world of higher education.
ANGELICA SANCHEZ: I was actually
really worried,
just because my parents are very
traditional,
so they don't -- and they don't
really know
what college is.
APRIL BROWN: About 10 years ago,
the university
realized it had a persistent
achievement gap.
Many of its low-income, minority
and first
generation students were
graduating less often
and dropping out more frequently
than their
white counterparts. That's when
the school
started aggressively using data
to find solutions.
TIM RENICK, Vice Provost,
Georgia State University:
Our overall graduation rates
hovered around
30 percent, far too low.
APRIL BROWN: Tim Renick is vice
provost at
Georgia State.
TIM RENICK: We knew we had to
change, we knew
we had to serve students better,
but we also
knew that we didn't have a lot
of resources.
What we did have is the data.
APRIL BROWN: They had a lot of
data, and began
analyzing it to figure out what
was tripping
up students.
TIM RENICK: We went back, we
looked at over
two-and-a-half million Georgia
State grades,
140,000 student records. And
what we found
in the data were about 800
different things,
800 things that, in a
statistically significant
way, correlated to students
flunking out or
dropping out of Georgia State.
APRIL BROWN: Those 800 things,
from whether
students register for the right
classes to
their grades, are monitored for
every student
by academic advisers like Tony
Davis.
How do we know that they're on
track?
TONY DAVIS, Georgia State
University: So,
what's happened is the
department -- so the
nursing department in this case
has identified
several key courses as marker
courses, so
they need to be taken within a
certain time
frame, and they're looking for a
minimum grade.
APRIL BROWN: The program also
tells Davis
whether a student is at high
risk.
TONY DAVIS: You can see with
this student
that she's missed several
markers. This is
a big red flag. Is the student
not passing
her courses? Is the student
withdrawing from
her courses, which usually
indicates a bigger
issue of some kind. That lets me
know I need
to reach out to this student.
It would be just as easy as
clicking this,
messaging her, and voicing my
concern.
APRIL BROWN: Data and other
research also
allowed Georgia State to figure
out that sometimes
just a few hundred dollars can
help students
stay in school or overcome other
barriers
to success.
TYLER MULVENNA, Student: It was
very difficult
to be able to pay for
everything.
APRIL BROWN: Tyler Mulvenna is
one of the
recipients of the Panther
Retention Grant,
named after the school mascot.
Tyler, who
is the first in his family to go
to college,
says the $900 he received
allowed him to focus
more on his classes after
struggling with
school, a full-time job, an
internship, and
a long commute.
TYLER MULVENNA: I wouldn't be
living in Atlanta
now. I couldn't be working
40-hour weeks while
doing that and commuting at the
same time.
I think that I would have ran
myself ragged.
APRIL BROWN: Georgia State spent
$3 million
last year on Panther Retention
Grants, and
is upping that to $4 million in
the next academic
year. The school estimates its
return on those
investments is more than 200
percent. But
it's the improved student
outcomes that has
earned the school national
praise from President
Obama, among others.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
We're going to have to make sure
more students
all the way across the
graduation stage. Georgia
State University, just to cite
one example,
is developing a new system to
give small grants
to students who might be a
little behind on
their bills.
APRIL BROWN: And educators
across the country
are taking a closer look at the
school's other
targeted interventions that have
closed the
graduation gap between
low-income, minority
and first generation
college-goers and their
white peers.
ANDREW NICHOLS, The Education
Trust: They
have made a significant amount
of progress
in a short amount of time.
APRIL BROWN: Andrew Nichols is a
researcher
at the nonprofit Education
Trust. He says
the achievement and graduation
gaps are a
problem in colleges across the
country.
ANDREW NICHOLS: Nationally, the
graduation
rates for students who enroll at
four-year
institutions is about 60
percent. The graduation
rates for low-income students at
those institutions
is about 50 percent. For
African-Americans,
it is about 40 percent, and for
Latinos, it
is about 55 percent.
APRIL BROWN: Even though Georgia
State's deep
dive into data has garnered a
lot of attention,
Nichols says many institutions
may not be
able to implement or afford such
a detailed
system. But he does point out
that Georgia
State has also been very good at
scaling and
tweaking some more frequently
used tools to
improve student success.
ANDREW NICHOLS: They looked at
courses that
had high rates of withdrawal and
failure.
And so they identified these
courses and redesigned
their curriculum completely.
They were leveraging
a lot of more common
interventions, such as
summer bridge programs, using
supplemental
instruction and freshman
learning communities.
APRIL BROWN: Fortune Onwuzuruike
is now a
senior and president of the
student government
association. But as an incoming
freshman,
he was very skeptical about
Georgia State's
summer bridge program.
FORTUNE ONWUZURUIKE, Student: I
thought it
was a horrible idea, because
it's straight
out of high school going
straight into college,
it's like, I didn't even get to
enjoy my summer.
APRIL BROWN: He quickly became a
convert.
FORTUNE ONWUZURUIKE: It really
is a head start.
You get seven additional credits
to your bachelor's
degree, so you are already ahead
of -- in
front of the freshman class
that's coming
in. You also get to meet
different people,
get a head start in getting
involved on campus,
knowing your way around campus.
APRIL BROWN: Rising sophomore
Angelica Sanchez
says the program that really
helped her feel
comfortable at Georgia State was
its freshman
learning community.
ANGELICA SANCHEZ: It was really
amazing to
be able to be part of a program
that had familiar
faces, just like high school
did, and the
people who are in all your
classes were the
same people who had the same
interests as
you. So it was really easy to
find friends,
and it made you felt like you
belonged on
campus.
APRIL BROWN: Sanchez is now very
confident
that, with the school's support,
she and thousands
of her peers will make it to
graduation.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
April Brown in
Atlanta.
GWEN IFILL: Now we continue our
summer reading
series, as Jeffrey Brown looks
at how a writer
and an award-winning illustrator
are updating
the look of children's
literature.
JEFFREY BROWN: In "Thunder Boy
Jr.," a young
Native American boy tells us
early on, "I
hate his name." Why? Well, he is
named after
his own father, and he wants his
own name,
his own identity.
Award-winning author Sherman
Alexie has written
numerous popular books for teens
and adults.
"Thunder Boy Jr.," illustrated
by Yuyi Morales,
is Alexie's first picture book.
At BookExpo America in Chicago
recently, I
asked him why he wanted to write
it.
SHERMAN ALEXIE, Author, "Thunder
Boy Jr.":
Because I have two sons. And I
just kept thinking
about the way picture books
meant to them.
Like, their favorites were "Taxi
Dog" and
"Go Dog Go" and the hundreds,
the thousands
of times I read those books to
them, and how
important those picture books
were to my sons.
I thought, I want to try to
capture that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. So, how did
you approach
it? What was different about
doing something
like this?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Oh. Well, the
big thing is,
you spend -- probably you want
the book to
be about 70 percent for the kid
and about
30 percent for the adult reading
to the kid.
JEFFREY BROWN: Because you have
the parent
in mind.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Exactly. You
have to.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Thank you, I
guess all
parents are saying.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Yes. You have
to.
So -- and that balance is really
difficult,
finding that balance, where you
make the book
hold up to repeated readings for
the kid and
the adult.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, can you give
me an example?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: This book ended
up being -- I
tried to get the intellectual
idea in place
first. Like, what is this book
going to mean,
and how is that going to apply
to two different
levels?
So, the thing that got to me was
the idea
of identity, especially in
relation to being
named after your father. I'm
named after my
father. I'm Sherman Alexie Jr.
And he died
in 2003. And at his funeral, the
coffin lowered
into the grave, and I was
staring at a tombstone
with my name on it.
JEFFREY BROWN: Wow.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: And it had never
occurred
to me. The existential weight of
being named
after your father hit me in such
a way. And
I thought, I knew I would have
to write about
it.
And, you know, even though it
seems odd, it
ended up being that that moment
became the
genesis of this picture book,
the idea of
the weight of being named after
your father
and what happens when you don't
want to be
named after him anymore. What
happens when
you want to turn away from his
legacy and
create your own, even when
you're 5 years
old?
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. And that's
what this is.
So, it's a young boy, Thunder
Boy Jr., son
of Thunder Boy Sr., right?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Saying, I want --
but I'm not
Thunder Boy, right?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: And trying to
figure out who
he is, in a sense.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: This idea of the
kid in search
of his own identity.
This is a loving, supportive
Native American
family. And I thought that was
important to
show as well.
JEFFREY BROWN: And he goes
through all his
experiences and says, maybe I
should be named
this, maybe I should be named
that.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Yes. And it's a
mix of, you
know, contemporary and tribally
influenced
names.
Like, he's a grass dancer, so
maybe his name
should be Drum, Drums and More
Drums. But
he also loves going to garage
sales with his
mom, so he says, maybe my name
should be Old
Toys Are Awesome.
(LAUGHTER)
SHERMAN ALEXIE: So he's a kid.
He's a Native
American kid. He's both at the
same time.
JEFFREY BROWN: How important is
that aspect
to it, of being a Native
American kid?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Oh, it's
absolutely vital,
especially in this era where we
need diverse
books. Children's books really
are not representing
the diversity of the United
States.
They're just beginning to. So
the idea of
having a book where a
brown-skinned kid, not
just a Native American, most
especially a
Native American, because I am,
but any kid
that's brown-skinned can look at
this character,
at Thunder Boy Jr., and his
family and see
his reflection, much in the same
way in 1969
when I first picked up Ezra Jack
Keats' picture
book "The Snowy Day."
JEFFREY BROWN: I was wondering
about that.
Of course, yes.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Yes. That was
the only book
that existed for me where the
kid even remotely
resembled me. It was an
African-American kid
wandering through the city after
a blizzard.
And I so strongly identified
with his solitude,
his sense of adventure, his
wandering, and
I had never felt that with a
book before.
JEFFREY BROWN: The absence that
you feel of
these kinds of books in our
culture, it's
interesting, because the growth
of books for
children, this huge number of
books.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Oh, it's
exponential. It's
the largest rapidly growing
market.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. And yet you
still don't
see enough diversity?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: And I think, if
every giant
cultural system is like, you --
trying to
change direction is like trying
to change
a cruise ship's direction. And
we have just
started that cultural process of
changing
the cruise ship called
publishing and called
children's publishing to start
looking at
the diversity of the country.
We can see it played out in all
sorts of ways
right now, the demographics of
voters, the
demographics of each state. I
mean, the number
of brown kids in the country is
exponentially
growing. So we need to address
these kids
culturally. We need to make them
feel like
they belong.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let me just ask
you in our
last minute here, the other
discussion in
the culture is, are kids -- is
anybody reading
anymore? And, you know, kids
seem to be reading,
but what happens to them after
that? What
do you see?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Well, you know,
I was one
of the Chicken Littles about
e-books, very
much so. I thought it spelled
doomed.
But the thing is, e-books have
actually plateaued
and in some cases declined in
sales. So I
think -- I think e-books are
just going to
be another way to sell books.
And they're
not going to take over. I think
there's no
substitute for the tactile -- a
kid needs
this. A kid learns math by
crawling.
The connection between the brain
and physical
activity is obvious and
well-studied and
well-researched.
And I think the same thing with
books. The
connection between language --
the connection
between language and movement,
between language and all your
senses are vital.
And kids know that.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
book is "Thunder
Boy Jr. by Sherman Alexie Jr.?
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, thanks
so much.
SHERMAN ALEXIE: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: You can watch many
more of Jeff's
author interviews from BookExpo
America and
other book festivals. You can
find them at
our Web site,
PBS.org/book-view-now.
other book festivals. You can
find them at
our Web site,
PBS.org/book-view-now.
And finally tonight: the passing
of the legendary
Pat Summitt. The Hall of Fame
women's basketball
coach died early today in
Knoxville, Tennessee,
after a long struggle with
Alzheimer's.
John Yang looks back at her
life.
JOHN YANG: She was famous for
her icy glare,
her toughness, and most of all
her will to
win.
Pat Summitt brought women's
basketball to
the national stage and took
Tennessee's Lady
Vols to eight national
championships. One
came in 1998, when Tennessee
went 39-and-0.
PAT SUMMITT, University of
Tennessee Basketball
Coach: We were young, but we
were very athletic,
and very skilled, and I think
the one ingredient
that probably separated our team
night in
and night out was just our
competitiveness.
JOHN YANG: Pat Summitt was
always competitive,
a star player in college, and
head coach of
the Lady Vols when she was just
22 years old.
Over 38 years, Summitt racked up
1,098 wins,
the most by any Division I
college basketball
coach ever, male or female. She
never had
a losing season. She was still
at it in 2000,
when she was inducted into the
Naismith Basketball
Hall of Fame.
PAT SUMMITT: I have always felt
a tremendous
responsibility as a coach and as
a teacher
to give to this game. I could
never give to
this game what this game has
given or meant
to me.
JOHN YANG: Then, in 2011,
Summitt announced
she had early-onset dementia.
Her son, Tyler,
spoke to the "NewsHour."
TYLER SUMMITT, Son of Pat
Summitt: She wakes
up every day and thinks about
the relationships
that she has with those young
ladies, her
players. And she just loves
being around them
and making their lives better,
not only on
the court, but also off. And so
there's nothing
that could take that passion
away from her.
JOHN YANG: Summitt coached one
more season
and retired in 2012.
WOMAN: Pat Summitt is an
unparalleled figure
in collegiate sports.
JOHN YANG: That year, President
Obama awarded
her the Medal of Freedom.
Today, a makeshift memorial grew
at the University
of Tennessee in Knoxville, and
tributes rolled
in, starting with Summitt's
greatest rival,
University of Connecticut coach
Geno Auriemma.
GENO AURIEMMA, University of
Connecticut Basketball
Coach: When people talked about
women's basketball
in America, college women's
basketball in
America, it was Pat Summitt and
Tennessee.
JOHN YANG: In her 1998 book,
"Reach for the
Summit," she told of turning
down an opportunity
to coach the Tennessee men's
basketball team.
She asked, "Why is that a step
up?"
Summitt was 64 years old.
GWEN IFILL: And updating our top
story tonight:
A senior Turkish official says
nearly 50 people
were killed in a suicide attack
on Istanbul's
main airport. The official says
up to four
attackers took part. In
response, the Federal
Aviation Administration has
halted all flights
between the U.S. and Istanbul.
Tune in tune in later tonight on
"Frontline":
a provocative look inside the
Newark, New
Jersey, Police Department, as it
tries to
implement reforms mandated by
the Justice
Department. In "Policing the
Police," Jelani
Cobb examines Newark's history
of police abuses,
its rocky relationship with the
community,
and efforts by its mayor to
bring about change.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: Part-time
workers want the work full time,
right? Not
always. On our Making Sense
page, one columnist
examines the trade-off for
parents who work.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.